update ExtendedCss section (#52)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase: docs/general/ad-filtering/create-own-filters.md

We recommend to use this kind of exceptions only if it is not possible to change the CSS rule itself. In other cases it is better to change the original rule, using domain restrictions.

> ### ExtendedCSS selectors {#extended-css-selectors}

Author: тут всё таки верну `Extended CSS selectors` поскольку речь в общем про цсс-селекторы но расширенные (помимо стандартных)

**Syntax**

> Regardless of the CSS pseudo-classes you are using in the rule, you can use special markers to force these rules applying by ExtendedCSS. It is recommended to use these markers for all "extended CSS" cosmetic rules so that it was easier to find them.

Author: хз, кавычки видимо лишние

> Some pseudo-classes do not require selector before it. Still adding a [universal selector](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#the-universal-selector) `*` makes an extended selector easier to read, even though it has no effect on the matching behavior. So selector `#block :has(> .inner)` works exactly like `#block *:has(> .inner)` but second one is more obvious.
>
> Pseudo-class names are case-insensitive, e.g. `:HAS()` will work as `:has()`. Still the lower-case names are used commonly.

#### ExtendedCss Limitations {#extended-css-limitations}

1. CSS [comments](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Comments) and [at-rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/At-rule) are not supported.

<!-- TODO: check anchors later -->
2. Specific pseudo-class may have its own limitations:
[`:has()`](#extended-css-has-limitations), [`:xpath()`](#extended-css-xpath-limitations), [`:nth-ancestor()`](#extended-css-nth-ancestor-limitations), [`:upward()`](#extended-css-upward-limitations), [`:is()`](#extended-css-is-limitations), [`:not()`](#extended-css-not-limitations), and [`:remove()`](#extended-css-remove-limitations).

#### Pseudo-class `:has()` {#extended-css-has}

> Draft CSS 4.0 specification describes [pseudo-class `:has()`](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#relational). Unfortunately, [it is not yet supported](https://caniuse.com/css-has) by all popular browsers.

Author: а заголовок такой норм?
```
Pseudo-class `:has()`
```

> Draft CSS 4.0 specification describes [pseudo-class `:has()`](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#relational). Unfortunately, [it is not yet supported](https://caniuse.com/css-has) by all popular browsers.

Reviewer: ага

> **Note**
>

> > Rules with `:has()` pseudo-class should use [native implementation of `:has()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:has) if rules use `##` marker and it is possible, i.e. with no other extended pseudo-classes inside. To force ExtendedCss applying of rules with `:has()`, use `#?#`/`#$?#` marker obviously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Rules with the `:has()` pseudo-class should use [native implementation of `:has()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:has) if they use `##` marker and if it is possible, i.e. with no other extended pseudo-classes inside. To force applying of ExtendedCss rules with `:has()`, use `#?#`/`#$?#` marker obviously.
```

Reviewer 2: Мне кажется, тут не нужен артикль в начале, остальные правки корректные

Reviewer 2: Об этом уже было выше, но тут тоже надо поменять последнюю фразу:

To force applying ExtendedCss rules with `:has()`, use `#?#`/`#$?#` marker explicitly.

> **Aliases**
>

> > Synonyms `:-abp-has` and `:if` are supported by ExtendedCss for better compatibility.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Synonym `:-abp-has` is supported by ExtendedCss for better compatibility.
```

**Syntax**
```
[target]:has(selector)
```
- `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element
- `selector` — required, standard or extended css selector

> Pseudo-class `:has()` selects the `target` elements that includes the elements that fit to the `selector`. Also `selector` can start with a combinator. Selector list can be set in `selector` as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pseudo-class `:has()` selects the `target` elements that fit to the `selector`. Also the `selector` can start with a combinator. A selector list can be set in the `selector` as well.
```

##### `:has()` limitations {#extended-css-has-limitations}

> > Usage of `:has()` pseudo-class is [restricted for some cases (2, 3)](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=669058#c54):

Reviewer: the `:has()` pseudo-class

> - disallow `:has()` inside the pseudos accepting only compound selectors;
> - disallow `:has()` after regular pseudo-elements.

> Native `:has()` pseudo-class does not allow `:has()`, `:is()`, `:where()` inside `:has()` argument to avoid increasing the `:has()` invalidation complexity ([case 1](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=669058#c54)). But ExtendedCss did not have such limitation earlier and filter lists already contain such rules, so we will not add this limitation in ExtendedCss and allow to use `:has()` inside `:has()` as it was possible before. To use it, just force ExtendedCss usage by setting `#?#`/`#$?#` rule marker.

> > Native implementation does not allow any usage of `:scope` inside `:has()` argument ([[1]](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/7211), [[2]](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/6399)). Still there some such rules in filter lists: `div:has(:scope > a)` which we will continue to support simply converting them to `div:has(> a)` as it was earlier.

Reviewer 2: В этом предложении:
>Still there some such rules in filter lists: `div:has(:scope > a)` which we will continue to support simply converting them to `div:has(> a)` as it was earlier.

надо внести правки:
>Still, there are some such rules in filter lists: `div:has(:scope > a)` which we will continue to support by simply converting them to `div:has(> a)`, as it used to be done previously.

**Examples**

> `div:has(.banner)` selects all `div` elements, which **includes** an element with the `banner` class:

Reviewer 2: ```...which include...``` вместо ```which includes``` 

Также запятая лишняя

```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div>Not selected</div>
<div>Selected
  <span class="banner">inner element</span>
</div>
```

> `div:has(> .banner)` selects all `div` elements, which **includes** an `banner` class element as a *direct child* of `div`:

Reviewer 2: ```...which include...``` вместо ```which includes``` 

Также запятая лишняя

```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div>Not selected</div>
<div>Selected
  <p class="banner">child element</p>
</div>
```

`div:has(+ .banner)` selects all `div` elements **preceding** `banner` class element which *immediately follows* the `div` and both are children of the same parent:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div>Not selected</div>
<div>Selected</div>
<p class="banner">adjacent sibling</p>
<span>Not selected</span>
```

`div:has(~ .banner)` selects all `div` elements **preceding** `banner` class element which *follows* the `div` but *not necessarily immediately* and both are children of the same parent:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div>Not selected</div>
<div>Selected</div>
<span>Not selected</span>
<p class="banner">general sibling</p>
```

> `div:has(span, .banner)` selects all `div` elements, which **includes both** `span` element and `banner` class element:

Reviewer 2: ```...which include...``` вместо ```which includes``` 

Также запятая лишняя

```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div>Not selected</div>
<div>Selected
  <span>child span</span>
  <p class="banner">child .banner</p>
</div>
```

> [Backward compatible syntax for `:has()`](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/ExtendedCss#-old-syntax-for-pseudo-class-has) is supported but not recommended.

> ##### Pseudo-class `:if-not()`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: it should remain in the article but marker as deprecated

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> This pseudo-class is basically a shortcut for `:not(:has())`. It is supported by ExtendedCss for better compatibility with some filters subscriptions, but it is not recommended to use it in AdGuard filters. The rationale is that one day browsers will add `:has` native support, but it will never happen to this pseudo-class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>
> Pseudo-class names are case-insensitive, e.g. `:HAS()` works as `:has()`. Still the lower-case names are used commonly.

#### ExtendedCss Limitations {#extended-css-limitations}

1. CSS [comments](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Comments) and [at-rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/At-rule) are not supported.

2. Specific pseudo-class may have its own limitations:
[`:has()`](#extended-css-has-limitations), [`:xpath()`](#extended-css-xpath-limitations), [`:nth-ancestor()`](#extended-css-nth-ancestor-limitations), [`:upward()`](#extended-css-upward-limitations), [`:is()`](#extended-css-is-limitations), [`:not()`](#extended-css-not-limitations), and [`:remove()`](#extended-css-remove-limitations).

#### Pseudo-class `:has()` {#extended-css-has}

Draft CSS 4.0 specification describes the [`:has()` pseudo-class](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#relational). Unfortunately, [it is not yet supported](https://caniuse.com/css-has) by all popular browsers.

> **Note**
>

> > Rules with the `:has()` pseudo-class should use [native implementation of `:has()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:has) if they use `##` marker and if it is possible, i.e. with no other extended selectors inside. To force applying of ExtendedCss rules with `:has()`, use `#?#`/`#$?#` marker explicitly.

Author: https://github.com/AdguardTeam/AdguardKnowledgeBase/issues/1129

> **Compatibility with other pseudo-classes**
>
> Synonyms `:-abp-has()` is supported by ExtendedCss for better compatibility.

> **Deprecation notice**
>
> `:if()` is no longer supported as synonyms for `:has()`.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:has(selector)
```
- `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element
- `selector` — required, standard or extended css selector

The pseudo-class `:has()` selects the `target` elements that fit to the `selector`. Also the `selector` can start with a combinator.

> A selector list can be set in `selector` as well. In this case **all** selectors in the list are being matched for now. In future it will be fixed for [`<forgiving-relative-selector-list>`](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#typedef-forgiving-relative-selector-list) as argument.

Reviewer 2: in the future

div:matches-css(before, content: /block me/)
```

> **Compatibility with other pseudo-classes**
>
> Obsolete pseudo-classes `:matches-css-before()` and `:matches-css-after()` are no longer recommended but still are supported for better compatibility.

> **Compatibility with old syntax**
>
> [Backward compatible syntax for `:matches-css()`](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/ExtendedCss#old-syntax-matches-css) is supported but **not recommended**.

#### Pseudo-class `:matches-attr()` {#extended-css-matches-attr}

The `:matches-attr()` pseudo-class allows to select an element by its attributes, especially if they are randomized.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:matches-attr("name"[="value"])
```
- `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element
- `name` — required, simple string *or* string with wildcard *or* regular expression for attribute name matching
- `value` — optional, simple string *or* string with wildcard *or* regular expression for attribute value matching

> **Escaping special characters**
>
> For **regexp** patterns `"` and `\` should be **escaped**,
> e.g. `div:matches-attr(class=/[\\w]{5}/)`.

> **Restrictions**
>

> > Regexp patterns **does not support** flags.

Reviewer 2: do not support

```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="target3" random123-unit094="click"></div>
```

`*:matches-attr("/.{5,}delay$/"="/^[0-9]*$/")` selects the element `#target4`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div>
  <inner-random23 id="target4" nt4f5be90delay="1000"></inner-random23>
</div>
```

#### Pseudo-class `:matches-property()` {#extended-css-property}

The `:matches-property()` pseudo-class allows to select an element by matching its properties.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:matches-property("name"[="value"])
```
- `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element
- `name` — required, simple string *or* string with wildcard *or* regular expression for element property name matching
- `value` — optional, simple string *or* string with wildcard *or* regular expression for element property value matching

> **Escaping special characters**
>
> For **regexp** patterns `"` and `\` should be escaped,
> e.g. `div:matches-property(prop=/[\\w]{4}/)`.

> **Note**
>
> Regexp patterns are supported in `name` for any property in chain,
> e.g. `prop./^unit[\\d]{4}$/.type`.

> **Restrictions**
>

> > Regexp patterns **does not support** flags.

Reviewer 2: do not support

same for other instances of this phrase, if there are any

**Examples**

An element with such properties:
```javascript
divProperties = {
  id: 1,
  check: {
    track: true,
    unit_2random1: true,
  },
  memoizedProps: {
    key: null,
    tag: 12,
    _owner: {
      effectTag: 1,
      src: 'ad.com',
    },
  },
};
```

can be selected by any of these extended selectors:
```
div:matches-property(check.track)

div:matches-property("check./^unit_.{4,8}$/")

div:matches-property("check.unit_*"=true)

div:matches-property(memoizedProps.key="null")

div:matches-property(memoizedProps._owner.src=/ad/)
```

> **For filters maintainers:**
>

> > To check properties of specific element, you should do:

Reviewer 2: To check properties of a specific element, do the following:

> > 1. Inspect the needed page element or select it in `Elements` tab of browser DevTools.

Reviewer 2: needed -> required

Reviewer 2: либо вообще убрать, просто "the page element"

> 2. Run `console.dir($0)` in `Console` tab.

#### Pseudo-class `:xpath()` {#extended-css-xpath}

The `:xpath()` pseudo-class allows to select an element by evaluating a XPath expression.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:xpath(expression)
```
- `target`- optional, standard or extended css selector
- `expression` — required, valid XPath expression

##### `:xpath()` limitations {#extended-css-xpath-limitations}

> > `target` can be omitted so it is optional. For any other pseudo-class that would mean "apply to *all* DOM nodes", but in case of `:xpath()` it just means "apply to the *whole* document", and such applying slows elements selecting significantly. That's why rules like `#?#:xpath(expression)` are limited for looking inside the `body` tag. For example, rule `#?#:xpath(//div[@data-st-area=\'Advert\'])` is parsed as `#?#body:xpath(//div[@data-st-area=\'Advert\'])`.

Reviewer 2: are limited for -> are limited to

> Extended selectors with defined `target` as *any* selector — `*:xpath(expression)` — can still be used but it is not recommended, so `target` should be specified instead.

> > Works properly only at the end of selector, except of [pseudo-class :remove()](#remove-pseudos).

Reviewer 2: except of -> except for

**Examples**

`:xpath(//*[@class="banner"])` selects the element `div#target1`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="target1" class="banner"></div>
```

`:xpath(//*[@class="inner"]/..)` selects the element `div#target2`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="target2">
  <div class="inner"></div>
</div>
```

#### Pseudo-class `:nth-ancestor()` {#extended-css-nth-ancestor}

The `:nth-ancestor()` pseudo-class allows to lookup the *nth* ancestor relative to the previously selected element.

```
subject:nth-ancestor(n)
```
- `subject` — required, standard or extended css selector
- `n` — required, number >= 1 and < 256, distance to the needed ancestor from the element selected by `subject`

**Syntax**

```
subject:nth-ancestor(n)
```

> - `subject` — required, standard or extended css selector

Reviewer 2: CSS

- `n` — required, number >= 1 and < 256, distance to the needed ancestor from the element selected by `subject`

##### `:nth-ancestor()` limitations {#extended-css-nth-ancestor-limitations}

> The `:nth-ancestor()` pseudo-class is not supported inside argument of the [`:not()` pseudo-class](#extended-css-not).

**Examples**

For such DOM:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="target1">
  <div class="child"></div>

  <div id="target2">
    <div>
      <div>
        <div class="inner"></div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

`.child:nth-ancestor(1)` selects the element `div#target1`,
`div[class="inner"]:nth-ancestor(3)` selects the element `div#target2`.

#### Pseudo-class `:upward()` {#extended-css-upward}

The `:upward()` pseudo-class allows to lookup the ancestor relative to the previously selected element.

**Syntax**

```
subject:upward(ancestor)
```

> - `subject` — required, standard or extended css selector

Reviewer 2: CSS capitalized, same for all other instances when CSS is used outside of ExtendedCss or other similar cases

#### Pseudo-class `:is()` {#extended-css-is}

The `:is()` pseudo-class allows to match any element that can be selected by any of selectors passed to it. Invalid selectors are skipped and the pseudo-class deals with valid ones with no error thrown. Our implementation of the [native `:is()` pseudo-class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:is).

**Syntax**

```
[target]:is(selectors)
```
- `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element
- `selectors` — [*forgiving selector list*](https://drafts.csswg.org/selectors-4/#typedef-forgiving-selector-list) of standard or extended selectors. For extended selectors only compound selectors are supported, not complex.

##### `:is()` limitations {#extended-css-is-limitations}

> Rules with the `:is()` pseudo-class should use the [native implementation of `:is()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:is) if rules use `##` marker and it is possible, i.e. with no other extended selectors inside. To force applying ExtendedCss rules with `:is()`, use `#?#`/`#$?#` marker explicitly.

> > If the `:is()` pseudo-class argument `selectors` is an extended selectors, due to the way how the `:is()` pseudo-class is implemented in ExtendedCss v2.0, it is impossible to apply it to the top DOM node which is `html`, i.e. `#?#html:is(<extended-selectors>)` does not work. So if `target` is not defined or defined as a [universal selector](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#the-universal-selector) `*`, the extended pseudo-class applying is limited to **`html`'s children**, e.g. rules `#?#:is(...)` and `#?#*:is(...)` are parsed as `#?#html *:is(...)`. Please note that there is no such limitation for a standard selector arg, i.e. `#?#html:is(.locked)` works fine.

Reviewer 2: is an extended selectors -> is an extended selector

Reviewer 2: >standard selector arg

Is it some kind of a slang for `argument`? Should we use it in the full form? If yes, there are other examples of this throughout the text that should be fixed too

> > [Complex selectors](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#complex) with extended pseudo-classes are not supported as `selectors` argument for `:is()` pseudo-class, only [compound ones](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#compound) are allowed. It is [one of known issues](#known-issues). Check examples below for more details.

Reviewer 2: one of the known issues

**Examples**

`#container *:is(.inner, .footer)` selects only the element `div#target1`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="container">
  <div data="true">
    <div>
      <div id="target1" class="inner"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

Due to limitations `:is(*:not([class]) > .banner)'` does not work
but `:is(*:not([class]):has(> .banner))` can be used instead of it to select the element `div#target2`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<span class="span">text</span>
<div id="target2">
  <p class="banner">inner paragraph</p>
</div>
```

#### Pseudo-class `:not()` {#extended-css-not}

The `:not()` pseudo-class allows to select elements which are *not matched* by selectors passed as arg. Invalid argument selectors are not allowed and error is to be thrown. Our implementation of the [`:not()` pseudo-class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:not).

**Syntax**

```
[target]:not(selectors)
```
- `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element

> - `selectors` — selector list of standard or extended selectors

Reviewer 2: selector list of ... -> list of ...

I believe the word 'selector' doesn't add any meaning in this case

##### `:not()` limitations {#extended-css-not-limitations}

> Rules with the `:not()` pseudo-class should use the [native implementation of `:not()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:not) if rules use `##` marker and it is possible, i.e. with no other extended selectors inside. To force applying ExtendedCss rules with `:not()`, use `#?#`/`#$?#` marker explicitly.

> > If the `:not()` pseudo-class argument `selectors` is an extended selectors, due to the way how the `:not()` pseudo-class is implemented in ExtendedCss v2.0, it is impossible to apply it to the top DOM node which is `html`, i.e. `#?#html:not(<extended-selectors>)` does not work. So if `target` is not defined or defined as a [universal selector](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#the-universal-selector) `*`, the extended pseudo-class applying is limited to **`html`'s children**, e.g. rules `#?#:not(...)` and `#?#*:not(...)` are parsed as `#?#html *:not(...)`. Please note that there is no such limitation for a standard selector arg, i.e. `#?#html:not(.locked)` works fine.

Reviewer 2: is an extended selectors -> is an extended selector

> The `:not()` is considered as a standard CSS pseudo-class inside argument of the [`:upward()` pseudo-class](#extended-css-upward) because `:upward()` supports only standard selectors.

> > "Up-looking" pseudo-classes which are [`:nth-ancestor()`](#extended-css-nth-ancestor) and [`:upward()`](#extended-css-upward) are not supported inside `selectors` argument for `:not()` pseudo-class. It is [one of known issues](#known-issues).

Reviewer 2: one of the known issues

**Examples**

`#container > *:not(h2, .text)` selects only the element `div#target1`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="container">
  <h2>Header</h2>
  <div id="target1"></div>
  <span class="text">text</span>
</div>
```

#### Pseudo-class `:if-not()` (deprecated) {#extended-css-if-not}

> **Deprecation notice**
>

> > The `:if-not()` pseudo-class is deprecated and no longer supported. Rules with it are considered as invalid.

Reviewer 2: and is no longer supported

2. Specific pseudo-class may have its own limitations:
[`:has()`](#extended-css-has-limitations), [`:xpath()`](#extended-css-xpath-limitations), [`:nth-ancestor()`](#extended-css-nth-ancestor-limitations), [`:upward()`](#extended-css-upward-limitations), [`:is()`](#extended-css-is-limitations), [`:not()`](#extended-css-not-limitations), and [`:remove()`](#extended-css-remove-limitations).

#### Pseudo-class `:has()` {#extended-css-has}

Draft CSS 4.0 specification describes the [`:has()` pseudo-class](https://www.w3.org/TR/selectors-4/#relational). Unfortunately, [it is not yet supported](https://caniuse.com/css-has) by all popular browsers.

> **Note**
>
> Rules with the `:has()` pseudo-class should use the [native implementation of `:has()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:has) if they use `##` marker and if it is possible, i.e. with no other extended selectors inside. To force applying of ExtendedCss rules with `:has()`, use `#?#`/`#$?#` marker explicitly.

> **Compatibility with other pseudo-classes**
>
> Synonyms `:-abp-has()` is supported by ExtendedCss for better compatibility.

> **Deprecation notice**
>

> > `:if()` is no longer supported as synonyms for `:has()`.

Reviewer: as a synonym

</div>
```

> **Compatibility with old syntax**
>
> [Backward compatible syntax for `:has()`](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/ExtendedCss#old-syntax-has) is supported but **not recommended**.

#### Pseudo-class `:contains()` {#extended-css-contains}

The `:contains()` pseudo-class principle is very simple: it allows to select the elements that contain specified text or which content matches a specified regular expression. Regexp flags are supported.

> **Note**
>
> The `:contains()` pseudo-class uses the `textContent` element property for matching, not the `innerHTML`.

> **Compatibility with other pseudo-classes**
>
> Synonyms `:-abp-contains()` and `:has-text()` are supported for better compatibility.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:contains(match)
```

> - `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element

Reviewer: CSS selector

```
! plain text
div:contains(banner)

! regular expression
div:contains(/as .* banner/)

! regular expression with flags
div:contains(/it .* banner/gi)
```

> **Note**
>
> Only the `div` with `id=match` is selected because the next element does not contain any text, and `banner` is a part of code, not a text.

> **Compatibility with old syntax**
>
> [Backward compatible syntax for `:contains()`](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/ExtendedCss#old-syntax-contains) is supported but **not recommended**.

#### Pseudo-class `:matches-css()` {#extended-css-matches-css}

The `:matches-css()` pseudo-class allows to match the element by its current style properties. The work of the pseudo-class is based on using the [`Window.getComputedStyle()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/getComputedStyle) method.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:matches-css([pseudo-element, ] property: pattern)
```
- `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element
- `pseudo-element` — optional, valid standard pseudo-element, e.g. `before`, `after`, `first-line`, etc.
- `property` — required, a name of CSS property to check the element for

> - `pattern` —  required, a value pattern that is using the same simple wildcard matching as in the basic url filtering rules OR a regular expression. For this type of matching, AdGuard always does matching in a case insensitive manner. In the case of a regular expression, the pattern looks like `/regexp/`.

Reviewer: case-insensitive

For such DOM:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<style type="text/css">
    #matched::before {
        content: "Block me"
    }
</style>
<div id="matched"></div>
<div id="not-matched"></div>
```

the `div` elements with pseudo-element `::before` and with specified `content` property can be selected by any of these extended selectors:
```
! string pattern
div:matches-css(before, content: block me)

! string pattern with wildcard
div:matches-css(before, content: block*)

! regular expression pattern
div:matches-css(before, content: /block me/)
```

> **Compatibility with other pseudo-classes**
>
> Obsolete pseudo-classes `:matches-css-before()` and `:matches-css-after()` are no longer recommended but still are supported for better compatibility.

> **Compatibility with old syntax**
>
> [Backward compatible syntax for `:matches-css()`](https://github.com/AdguardTeam/ExtendedCss#old-syntax-matches-css) is supported but **not recommended**.

#### Pseudo-class `:matches-attr()` {#extended-css-matches-attr}

The `:matches-attr()` pseudo-class allows to select an element by its attributes, especially if they are randomized.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:matches-attr("name"[="value"])
```

> - `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element

Reviewer: CSS

> **Escaping special characters**
>
> For **regexp** patterns `"` and `\` should be **escaped**,
> e.g. `div:matches-attr(class=/[\\w]{5}/)`.

> **Restrictions**
>
> Regexp patterns **does not support** flags.

**Examples**

`div:matches-attr("ad-link")` selects the element `div#target1`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="target1" ad-link="1random23-banner_240x400"></div>
```

`div:matches-attr("data-*"="adBanner")` selects the element `div#target2`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="target2" data-1random23="adBanner"></div>
```

`div:matches-attr(*unit*=/^click$/)` selects the element `div#target3`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div id="target3" random123-unit094="click"></div>
```

`*:matches-attr("/.{5,}delay$/"="/^[0-9]*$/")` selects the element `#target4`:
```html
<!-- HTML code -->
<div>
  <inner-random23 id="target4" nt4f5be90delay="1000"></inner-random23>
</div>
```

#### Pseudo-class `:matches-property()` {#extended-css-property}

The `:matches-property()` pseudo-class allows to select an element by matching its properties.

**Syntax**

```
[target]:matches-property("name"[="value"])
```

> - `target` — optional, standard or extended css selector, can be missed for checking *any* element

Reviewer: CSS

> **Escaping special characters**
>
> For **regexp** patterns `"` and `\` should be escaped,
> e.g. `div:matches-property(prop=/[\\w]{4}/)`.

> **Note**
>
> Regexp patterns are supported in `name` for any property in chain,
> e.g. `prop./^unit[\\d]{4}$/.type`.

> **Restrictions**
>
> Regexp patterns **does not support** flags.

**Examples**

An element with such properties:
```javascript
divProperties = {
  id: 1,
  check: {
    track: true,
    unit_2random1: true,
  },
  memoizedProps: {
    key: null,
    tag: 12,
    _owner: {
      effectTag: 1,
      src: 'ad.com',
    },
  },
};
```

can be selected by any of these extended selectors:
```
div:matches-property(check.track)

div:matches-property("check./^unit_.{4,8}$/")

div:matches-property("check.unit_*"=true)

div:matches-property(memoizedProps.key="null")

div:matches-property(memoizedProps._owner.src=/ad/)
```

> **For filters maintainers:**
>
> To check properties of specific element, you should do:
> 1. Inspect the needed page element or select it in `Elements` tab of browser DevTools.
> 2. Run `console.dir($0)` in `Console` tab.

#### Pseudo-class `:xpath()` {#extended-css-xpath}

> The `:xpath()` pseudo-class allows to select an element by evaluating a XPath expression.

Reviewer: an XPath expression

**Enabling global debug:**

> When the value of the `debug` property is `global`, the console will display information about all extended CSS selectors that have matches on the current page, for all the rules from any of the enabled filters.

Reviewer 2: If we want to substitute `ExtendedCSS` with `extended CSS`, we should do it everywhere, I believe. There are a lot of instances of `ExtendedCss` left in this article.

Author: there are a lot of instances of `extended CSS selectors`, exactly in such form

and it was the only case of `ExtendedCss selectors`
